docs: add undecorated classes migration faq (#32478)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/deprecations.md

|`createViewRoot(hostElement)`|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|`invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)`|`(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);`|
|`animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)`|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)|

## Undecorated classes migration

This section discusses migration of two inheritance patterns which need special attention in Ivy.

### FAQs

#### What does this migration do?

> This migration adds an empty `@Directive()` decorator to base classes that are extended by directives.

Reviewer: The migration does two different things based on the two cases (undecorated base class and undecorated derived class)

1) In the undecorated base class case, it adds the `@Directive()` decorator (this is already covered here ✅)
2) In the undecorated derived class, it copies the _inherited_ directive or component metadata to the derived class (if possible; [see here](https://hackmd.io/sfb3Ju2MTmKHSUiX_dLWGg#Schematic-Design)). This is currently not covered in that section.

I think we should add the second bullet point here too right? The current section just talks about the first migration case but above it's mentioned that there are two inheritance patterns.

Author: Perfect. Got it. Thanks!

}

@Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
```

The `PlainBase` class has a `constructor()`, but the `DerivedDirective` class does not.

If a class has a `@Directive()` or `@Component()` decorator, the compiler
can determine that it's meant to be a directive or component. As such,
the compiler knows that it needs to generate special code for that class
so the runtime system can correctly create the class with all its dependencies.

In this case, the subclass is inheriting its constructor from the base class
but it's inheriting a constructor from a class for which the compiler did not
generate special constructor info (because it was not decorated as a directive).
So when Angular tries to create the subclass, it doesn't have the correct info
to create it.

In View Engine, the compiler has global knowledge, so it
can look up the missing data. However, Ivy adheres to the
principle of locality, so it can only use data from that
component to generate code (rather than from its ancestors),
thus, it must have a `@Directive()` decorator.

In some cases this works in View Engine, however, to migrate to Ivy, you must use decorators.

> To migrate, add the appropriate decorator, `@Component()` or `@Directive()`, to base classes that do not already have decorators.

Reviewer: Based on my understanding we just want to recommend adding a selector-less `@Directive()` here? `@Component` always requires a template and we just want to perform the migration by adding `@Directive()` to the undecorated base class that uses DI or Angular features (such as `@Input()` etc.)

Author: Ah, thank you for the correction. Fixed.

#### The undecorated child pattern

The undecorated child pattern is a pattern in which a
derived undecorated class inherits from a decorated
directive or component.

Consider the following example which demonstrates inheritance from a decorated to an undecorated class.

```typescript

@Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
export class BaseDirective {
  ...
}

export class PlainDerived extends BaseDirective {}
```

In this case, the `PlainDerived` class inherits from the
`BaseDirective` class yet has no decorators of its own.
Without a decorator, the compiler has no way of knowing
that the class is a `@Directive` or `@Component`.

### What does it mean to have a `@Directive()` or `@Component()` annotation with no metadata inside of it?

> If you have a `@Directive()` or `@Component()` annotation with

Reviewer: I don't think we support component decorators without metadata. This is because `@Component` always requires a `template` to be specified. In the first migration case (undecorated base class). In that case the parent just needs a selector-less `@Directive()` decorator to be added.

In the second migration case (undecorated child class). In that case, the child should just copy/replicate the decorator from the parent (so the behavior remains the same). In any case, there will never be a `@Component` decorator with no metadata and we shouldn't mention it IMO.

Author: I see. Fixed. Thank you for the explanation. Learning as I go. 😅

no metadata inside of it, that decorator simply serves as a
placeholder so Angular knows to generate the data it needs
to create that class with the correct dependencies. This is
important if the directives or components extend the base
class. It's essentially an "abstract" directive and it
should not be used in templates directly. If you try to

> use one in a template or add it to an `NgModule`, Angular will throw.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we should add such a phrase. If the directive is abstract, it doesn't have a selector and cannot be used within a component template.

Reviewer 2: I think that's the point she's trying to make. Selectorless directives should not be added to templates or modules, and if you try to, Angular will throw. How can we clarify that sentence? Maybe

```suggestion
use one in a template or add it to an `NgModule`, Angular will throw an error.
```

Author: Added "an error". Thanks for the clarification. Leaving open so @kara can respond to @devversion.

If you actually want to use a `Directive()`
in a template, it's required to add a selector property to
the decorator. Otherwise, Angular won't know how to match
elements in the template with your directive.

> ### When do I need an `@Directive()` or `@Component()` decorator without a selector?

Reviewer: Here is another case where we should remove the `@Component` I guess? (due to the same reasons as within the other comments)

Author: Got it, done!

If you're using dependency injection, or any Angular-specific

> feature, such as `@Host()` or `@ViewChild()`, you need an

Reviewer: A more common case should be the use of `@Input()`, so maybe we should mention that as an example?

Author: Got it. Added. 😊

|`createViewRoot(hostElement)`|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|`invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)`|`(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);`|
|`animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)`|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)|

> ## Undecorated classes migration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Undecorated classes migration (DI)
```

Reviewer: @kara Yeah, it makes sense to denote this as the `DI` migration. One concern I have is that we have a section below where we talk about `@Input`, `@HostBinding` etc. Those things are not part of the DI migration though? (so this might be confusing)

Author: Done.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it's from a different migration, but we should answer the question completely for version 9. Omitting it wouldn't be accurate. Maybe we can link in that question to the other guide when it's ready.

Reviewer: Yeah, the answer to the question is accurate, but not necessarily related to that particular migration. IMO the ideal solution would be to have one document for both undecorated classes migrations. Two documents can be confusing.

Up to you though. this is just an idea.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, thought about that too 🤔 The only thing is that the doc would be longer... let me see what the other guide ends up looking like. Maybe we'll end up combining them if there's too much shared.

> This section discusses migration of two inheritance patterns which need special attention in Ivy.

Reviewer 2: Can we say something about how this is a version 8 to version 9 migration?
```suggestion
This section discusses a version 9 schematic that migrates two inheritance patterns which need special attention in Ivy.
```

Author: Done.

### FAQs

#### What does this migration do?

> For the undecorated base class,

Author: Done.

> this migration adds an empty `@Directive()` decorator to base classes

Author: Done.

that are extended by _either_ directives or components.

  Before:
  ```ts
  export class PlainBase {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
  export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
  ```

  After:
  ```ts
  @Directive()
  export class PlainBase {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
  export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
  ```

For the undecorated derived class, it copies the inherited

> directive or component metadata to the derived class.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a diff for this one too?

```suggestion
It also copies any inherited directive or component metadata to the derived class.

Before:
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
class BaseComp {}

export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}

After:
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
class BaseComp {}

@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}
```

Author: ooooh thanks for the diff! Added. 🚀

```typescript
export class PlainBase {
  constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
}

@Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
```

The `PlainBase` class has a `constructor()`, but the `DerivedDirective` class does not.

If a class has a `@Directive()` or `@Component()` decorator, the compiler
can determine that it's meant to be a directive or component. As such,
the compiler knows that it needs to generate special code for that class
so the runtime system can correctly create the class with all its dependencies.

In this case, the subclass is inheriting its constructor from the base class
but it's inheriting a constructor from a class for which the compiler did not
generate special constructor info (because it was not decorated as a directive).
So when Angular tries to create the subclass, it doesn't have the correct info
to create it.

In View Engine, the compiler has global knowledge, so it
can look up the missing data. However, Ivy adheres to the
principle of locality, so it can only use data from that
component to generate code (rather than from its ancestors),
thus, it must have a `@Directive()` decorator.

> In some cases this works in View Engine, however, to migrate to Ivy, you must use decorators.

Reviewer 2: Think the info in this line is covered in the paragraph below. Omit?

```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

> To migrate, add `@Directive()` to base classes that do not already have decorators.

Reviewer 2: The schematic should already have done this for you. Maybe say:

```suggestion
In the future, add `@Directive()` to base classes that do not already have decorators and are extended by directives.
```

Author: Done.

#### The undecorated child pattern

The undecorated child pattern is a pattern in which a
derived undecorated class inherits from a decorated
directive or component.

Consider the following example which demonstrates inheritance from a decorated to an undecorated class.

```typescript

@Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
export class BaseDirective {
  ...
}

export class PlainDerived extends BaseDirective {}
```

In this case, the `PlainDerived` class inherits from the
`BaseDirective` class yet has no decorators of its own.
Without a decorator, the compiler has no way of knowing

> that the class is a `@Directive` or `@Component`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that the class is a `@Directive` or `@Component`, so it doesn't generate the proper instructions for the component.
```

Author: Done.

### What does it mean to have a `@Directive()` annotation with no metadata inside of it?

If you have a `@Directive()` annotation with
no metadata inside of it, that decorator simply serves as a
placeholder so Angular knows to generate the data it needs

> to create that class with the correct dependencies. This is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a `@Directive()` annotation with
no metadata inside of it, that decorator tells Angular 
to generate a factory function for that class but not to 
use it to match directives.
```

Author: Done.

> important if the directives or components extend the base

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
important if any directives or components extend a base
```

Author: Done.

class. It's essentially an "abstract" directive and it
should not be used in templates directly. If you try to
use one in a template or add it to an `NgModule`, Angular will throw.

> If you actually want to use a `Directive()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you actually want to use a directive
```

Author: Done.

in a template, it's required to add a selector property to
the decorator. Otherwise, Angular won't know how to match
elements in the template with your directive.

### When do I need an `@Directive()` decorator without a selector?

If you're using dependency injection, or any Angular-specific

> feature, such as `@Host()`, `@ViewChild()`, or `@Input()`, you need an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
feature, such as `@HostBinding()`, `@ViewChild()`, or `@Input()`, you need an
```

Author: Done.

`@Directive()` or `@Component()` decorator. The decorator
lets the compiler know to create the correct data for any

> child class that extends that base class. If you don't want

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The decorator lets the compiler know to generate the correct instructions to create that 
class and any classes that extend it.
```

Author: Updated, but would like to confirm having edited as you intend:

> The decorator lets the compiler know to generate the correct
> instructions to create that class and any classes that extend it.
> To use that base class as a directive directly, leave
> the selector blank. If you do want it to be usable independently,
> fill in the metadata as usual.

that base class to be used as a directive directly, leave

> the selector blank. If you do want it usable independently,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the selector blank. If you do want it to be usable independently,
```

Author: Done.

fill in the metadata normally.

If you have a base class that isn't instantiated

> (not declared in an NgModule), or a class that doesn't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(not declared in an `NgModule`), or a class that doesn't
```

Author: Done.

use any Angular features, you don't need a decorator.

> Such a base class serves as a blueprint for child classes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: Done.

> #### I'm a library author. Should I add the `@Directive()` decorator to base classes?

Reviewer 2: Header formatting is off by one, I think

```suggestion
### I'm a library author. Should I add the `@Directive()` decorator to base classes in my lib?
```

Author: Fixed.

> If you want to support Angular Version 8 and earlier, you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to support Angular version 8 and earlier, you
```

Author: Done.

shouldn't add a selectorless `@Directive()` decorator.
You can either add `@Directive()` with a selector or

> add an explicit constructor to the subclass

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
add an explicit constructor to affected subclasses.
```

Author: Fixed.

|`createViewRoot(hostElement)`|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|`invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)`|`(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);`|
|`animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)`|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)|

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we also add a "Version 9 Schematics" section right above the Renderer guide so it's clear what the context is for these migration sections?

Author: Added!

## Undecorated classes migration (DI)

This section discusses a version 9 schematic that migrates
two inheritance patterns which need special attention in Ivy.

### What does this migration do?

This migration adds an empty `@Directive()` decorator to undecorated
base classes that are extended by either directives or components.

  Before:
  ```ts
  export class PlainBase {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
  export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
  ```

  After:
  ```ts
  @Directive()
  export class PlainBase {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

>   @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})

Reviewer 2: Update these ones too?

```suggestion
  @Directive({selector: '[derivedDir]'})
```

Author: Oh! Thank you. Got it.

|`createViewRoot(hostElement)`|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|`invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)`|`(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);`|
|`animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)`|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)|

## Undecorated classes migration (DI)

This section discusses a version 9 schematic that migrates
two inheritance patterns which need special attention in Ivy.

### What does this migration do?

This migration adds an empty `@Directive()` decorator to undecorated

> base classes that are extended by _either_ directives or components.

Author: You're right. Removed.

  Before:
  ```ts
  export class PlainBase {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
  export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
  ```

  After:
  ```ts
  @Directive()
  export class PlainBase {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})
  export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
  ```

> For the undecorated derived class, it also copies the inherited

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also copies any inherited directive or component metadata to the derived class.
```

Author: I see. Got it. Thanks!

directive or component metadata to the derived class.

Before:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```ts
```

Author: Good catch. Fixed.

@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
class BaseComp {}

> export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}

Reviewer 2: Add a line between the two comps?

```suggestion

export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}
```

Author: Added.

```

After:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```ts
```

Author: Fixed!

@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})

> class BaseComp {}

Reviewer 2: Same here. Add a line?

```suggestion

class BaseComp {}
```

Author: Done!

@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}
```

> ### Why is this new decorator necessary?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Why is this migration necessary?
```

Author: Done.

There are two scenarios where the new decorator is necessary for migration; each involving an undecorated parent or child class.

#### The undecorated parent pattern

The undecorated parent pattern refers to derived `@Directive()` or `@Component()` classes which inherit a constructor from an undecorated base class.

Consider the following example:

```typescript
export class PlainBase {
  constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
}

> @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})

Reviewer 2: This selector seems a bit random. How about:

```suggestion
@Directive({selector: '[derivedDir]'})
```

Author: Done.

the compiler knows that it needs to generate special code for that class
so the runtime system can correctly create the class with all its dependencies.

In this case, the subclass is inheriting its constructor from the base class
but it's inheriting a constructor from a class for which the compiler did not
generate special constructor info (because it was not decorated as a directive).
So when Angular tries to create the subclass, it doesn't have the correct info
to create it.

In View Engine, the compiler has global knowledge, so it
can look up the missing data. However, Ivy adheres to the
principle of locality, so it can only use data from that
component to generate code (rather than from its ancestors),
thus, it must have a `@Directive()` decorator.

In the future, add `@Directive()` to base classes that
do not already have decorators and are extended by directives.

#### The undecorated child pattern

The undecorated child pattern is a pattern in which a
derived undecorated class inherits from a decorated
directive or component.

Consider the following example which demonstrates inheritance from a decorated to an undecorated class.

```typescript

> @Directive({selector: '[sale-item]'})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
@Directive({selector: '[baseDir]'})
```

Author: Fixed.

export class BaseDirective {
  ...
}

export class PlainDerived extends BaseDirective {}
```

In this case, the `PlainDerived` class inherits from the
`BaseDirective` class yet has no decorators of its own.
Without a decorator, the compiler has no way of knowing
that the class is a `@Directive` or `@Component`, so

> it doesn't generate the proper instructions for the component.

Reviewer 2: Let's say directive since it's a directive in the example.

```suggestion
it doesn't generate the proper instructions for the directive.
```

Author: Fixed.

### What does it mean to have a `@Directive()` annotation with no metadata inside of it?

If you have a `@Directive()` annotation with
no metadata inside of it, that decorator tells Angular
to generate a factory function for that class but not to
use it to match directives. This is
important if any directives or components extend a base
class. It's essentially an "abstract" directive and it

> should not be used in templates directly. If you try to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cannot be used in templates directly. If you try to
```

Author: Fixed.

> use one in a template or add it to an `NgModule`, Angular

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
add it to an `NgModule`, Angular
```

Author: Fixed.

will throw an error.

If you actually want to use a directive
in a template, it's required to add a selector property to
the decorator. Otherwise, Angular won't know how to match
elements in the template with your directive.

### When do I need an `@Directive()` decorator without a selector?

If you're using dependency injection, or any Angular-specific

> feature, such as `@HostBinding()`, `@ViewChild()`, or `@Input()`, you need an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
feature, such as `@HostBinding()`, `@ViewChild()`, or `@Input()`, you need a
```

Author: Got it. Fixed.

`@Directive()` or `@Component()` decorator.
The decorator lets the compiler know to generate the correct
instructions to create that class and any classes that extend it.

> To use that base class as a directive directly, leave

Reviewer 2: Looks like the logic got inverted here? :)

```suggestion
If you don't want to use that base class as a directive directly, leave
```

Author: Done!

the selector blank. If you do want it to be usable independently,
fill in the metadata as usual.

If you have a base class that isn't instantiated
(not declared in an `NgModule`), or a class that doesn't

> use any Angular features, you don't need a decorator.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could simplify this to

```
Classes that don't use Angular features don't need an Angular decorator.
```

Author: Oh nice. Done!

|`createViewRoot(hostElement)`|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|`invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)`|`(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);`|
|`animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)`|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)|

### Undecorated classes migration (DI)

This section discusses an Angular version 9 schematic that migrates
two inheritance patterns that need to be updated to work with Ivy.

#### What does this migration do?

This migration adds an empty `@Directive()` decorator to undecorated
base classes that are extended by either directives or components.

  Before:
  ```ts
  export class BaseMenu {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

>   @Directive({selector: '[derivedDir]'})

Reviewer 2: If we change the names, can we update all the selectors to match?

Author: So embarrassing! 🙈😅Fixed.

which the compiler did not generate special constructor
info (because it was not decorated as a directive).
So when Angular tries to create the subclass, it doesn't have the correct info
to create it.

In View Engine, the compiler has global knowledge, so it
can look up the missing data. However, Ivy adheres to the
principle of locality, so it can only use data from that
component to generate code (rather than from its ancestors),
thus, it must have a `@Directive()` decorator.

In the future, add `@Directive()` to base classes that
do not already have decorators and are extended by directives.

##### Decorator missing from child class

When the child class is missing the decorator, the
child class inherits from the
parent class yet has no decorators of its own.
Without a decorator, the compiler has no way of knowing
that the class is a `@Directive` or `@Component`, so
it doesn't generate the proper instructions for the directive.

#### What does it mean to have a `@Directive()` decorator with no metadata inside of it?

The presence of the `@Directive` decorator causes Angular to generate
extra code for the affected class. If that decorator includes no
properties (metadata),

> the generated code won't run directly, but other classes that _extend_ the

Reviewer 2: I found this part about generated code running to be confusing.  Maybe:

```suggestion
the directive won't be matched to elements or instantiated directly, but other classes that _extend_ the
directive class will be able to use the extra code that was generated for the base class.
```

Author: Fixed!

|`createViewRoot(hostElement)`|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|`invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)`|`(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);`|
|`animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)`|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)|

### Undecorated classes migration (DI)

This section discusses an Angular version 9 schematic that migrates
two inheritance patterns that need to be updated to work with Ivy.

#### What does this migration do?

This migration adds an empty `@Directive()` decorator to undecorated
base classes that are extended by either directives or components.

  Before:
  ```ts
  export class BaseMenu {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

>   @Directive({selector: '[settingsDir]'})

Reviewer 3: "settingsDir` -> `settingsMenu`

(here and below)

  export class SettingsMenu extends BaseMenu {}
  ```

  After:
  ```ts
  @Directive()
  export class BaseMenu {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[settingsDir]'})
  export class SettingsMenu extends BaseMenu {}
  ```

The schematic also copies any inherited directive or component metadata to the derived class.

Before:
```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})

> class BaseComp {}

Reviewer 3: Same name changes for this example?

After:
```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
class BaseComp {}

@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}
```

#### Why is this migration necessary?

When a class has a `@Directive()` or `@Component()` decorator,
the Angular compiler generates extra code to inject dependencies into
the constructor. When using inheritance, Ivy needs both the parent class
and the child class to apply a decorator to generate the correct code.

You can think of this change as two cases: a parent class is missing a
decorator or a child class is missing a decorator. In both scenarios,
Angular's run-time needs additional information from the compiler.
This additional information comes from adding decorators.

##### Decorator missing from parent class

When the decorator is missing from the parent class,
the subclass inherits its constructor from the base class.
However, it's inheriting a constructor from a class for
which the compiler did not generate special constructor
info (because it was not decorated as a directive).
So when Angular tries to create the subclass, it doesn't have the correct info

> to create it.

Reviewer 3: Suggested edit for this paragraph:
```markdown
When using inheritance, a child directive references the `constructor` of its parent class.
If that parent class doesn't have a decorator, however, its constructor lacks extra
generated code from the Angular compiler to make dependency injection work.
```

In View Engine, the compiler has global knowledge, so it
can look up the missing data. However, Ivy adheres to the

> principle of locality, so it can only use data from that

Reviewer 3: optional: "principle of locality" isn't a broadly known term/concept. I might rephrase like (starting at "However")
```markdown
However, the Ivy compiler only processes each directive in isolation. This means that
compilation can be faster, but the compiler can't automatically infer the same
information as before. Adding the `@Directive` explicitly provides this information.
```

component to generate code (rather than from its ancestors),
thus, it must have a `@Directive()` decorator.

In the future, add `@Directive()` to base classes that
do not already have decorators and are extended by directives.

##### Decorator missing from child class

When the child class is missing the decorator, the
child class inherits from the
parent class yet has no decorators of its own.
Without a decorator, the compiler has no way of knowing
that the class is a `@Directive` or `@Component`, so
it doesn't generate the proper instructions for the directive.

#### What does it mean to have a `@Directive()` decorator with no metadata inside of it?

The presence of the `@Directive` decorator causes Angular to generate
extra code for the affected class. If that decorator includes no
properties (metadata),
the directive won't be matched to elements or instantiated
directly, but other classes that _extend_ the
directive class will inherit this generated code. You can think of
this as an "abstract" directive.

Adding an abstract directive to an `NgModule` will cause an error.
A directive must have a `selector` property defined in order to match some element in a template.

> #### When do I need an `@Directive()` decorator without a selector?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### When do I need a `@Directive()` decorator without a selector?
```

Author: Fixed! I was reading it wrong. Thanks for correcting me, @kara!

|`createViewRoot(hostElement)`|Should be replaced with a reference to `hostElement`|
|`invokeElementMethod(renderElement, methodName, args?)`|`(renderElement as any)<methodName>.apply(renderElement, args);`|
|`animate(element, startingStyles, keyframes, duration, delay, easing, previousPlayers?)`|Throws an error (same behavior as `Renderer.animate()`)|

### Undecorated classes migration (DI)

This section discusses a version 9 schematic that migrates

> two inheritance patterns which need special attention in Ivy.

Author: Fixed.

#### What does this migration do?

This migration adds an empty `@Directive()` decorator to undecorated
base classes that are extended by either directives or components.

  Before:
  ```ts

>   export class PlainBase {

Author: Got it. Changed.

    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[derivedDir]'})
  export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
  ```

  After:
  ```ts
  @Directive()
  export class PlainBase {
    constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
  }

  @Directive({selector: '[derivedDir]'})
  export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}
  ```

> It also copies any inherited directive or component metadata to the derived class.

Author: Fixed.

Before:
```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
class BaseComp {}

export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}
```

After:
```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
class BaseComp {}

@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  template: '<div></div>'
})
export class PlainDerivedComp extends BaseComp {}
```

#### Why is this migration necessary?

> There are two scenarios where the new decorator is necessary for migration; each involving an undecorated parent or child class.

Author: Nice! Added.

##### The undecorated parent pattern

The undecorated parent pattern refers to derived `@Directive()` or `@Component()` classes which inherit a constructor from an undecorated base class.

Consider the following example:

```typescript
export class PlainBase {
  constructor(private vcr: ViewContainerRef) {}
}

@Directive({selector: '[derivedDir]'})
export class DerivedDirective extends PlainBase {}

> ```

Reviewer 3: This example seems duplicative with the above "before/after" example.

(similar for the next example below)

Author: De-duplicatized it. Also, took out the redundant stuff. (I crack me up!) 

Seriously, thank you for catching those. Nice improvement. 🙏🏼

The `PlainBase` class has a `constructor()`, but the `DerivedDirective` class does not.

> If a class has a `@Directive()` or `@Component()` decorator, the compiler

Author: Got it. Thanks for the clear explanation. Changed.

can determine that it's meant to be a directive or component. As such,
the compiler knows that it needs to generate special code for that class
so the runtime system can correctly create the class with all its dependencies.

> In this case, the subclass is inheriting its constructor from the base class

Reviewer 3: "is inheriting" -> "inherits"

Author: Done.

to create it.

In View Engine, the compiler has global knowledge, so it
can look up the missing data. However, Ivy adheres to the
principle of locality, so it can only use data from that
component to generate code (rather than from its ancestors),
thus, it must have a `@Directive()` decorator.

In the future, add `@Directive()` to base classes that
do not already have decorators and are extended by directives.

##### The undecorated child pattern

The undecorated child pattern is a pattern in which a
derived undecorated class inherits from a decorated
directive or component.

Consider the following example which demonstrates inheritance from a decorated to an undecorated class.

```typescript

@Directive({selector: '[baseDir]'})
export class BaseDirective {
  ...
}

export class PlainDerived extends BaseDirective {}
```

In this case, the `PlainDerived` class inherits from the
`BaseDirective` class yet has no decorators of its own.
Without a decorator, the compiler has no way of knowing
that the class is a `@Directive` or `@Component`, so
it doesn't generate the proper instructions for the directive.

> #### What does it mean to have a `@Directive()` annotation with no metadata inside of it?

Reviewer 3: Should consistently use "decorator" and not "annotation"

Author: Fixed.

If you have a `@Directive()` annotation with
no metadata inside of it, that decorator tells Angular
to generate a factory function for that class but not to
use it to match directives. This is
important if any directives or components extend a base
class. It's essentially an "abstract" directive and it
cannot be used in templates directly. If you try to
add it to an `NgModule`, Angular

> will throw an error.

Reviewer 3: Proposed edit:
```markdown
The presence of the `@Directive` decorator causes Angular to generate
extra code for the affected class. If that decorator includes no properties (metadata),
the generated code won't run directly, but other classes that _extend_ the
directive class will inherit this generated code. You can think of this as an "abstract"
directive. 

Adding an abstract directive to an `NgModule` will cause an error. A directive must
have a `selector` property defined in order to match some element in a template.
```
I think the "factory function" bits are a bit more than most people need to know, so we can just talk about the general idea of generated code.

Author: Got it. Thanks!
